# TPM
TPM can refer to ==Trusted Platform Module, Total Productive Maintenance, or Third-Party Monitoring==: 

- **Trusted Platform Module**
    
    A security technology that protects a computer's hardware and information: 
    
    - **What it does**: Uses cryptography to create and store keys, and to verify that the operating system and firmware are authentic. 
        
    - **Where it's located**: Usually a separate chip on the motherboard, but TPM 2.0 allows manufacturers to build the capability into their chipsets. 
        
    
    - **How it improves security**: Increases system security against software vulnerabilities. 
        
    
    - **How to enable it**: You can enable the TPM on a Dell computer by rebooting and pressing F2 when the Dell logo appears.
# ASLR

==Address space layout randomization== (ASLR) is a computer security technique that makes it harder to exploit memory corruption vulnerabilities in software: 

- **How it works**
    
    ASLR randomly positions the base address of an executable, as well as the position of libraries, heap, and stack, in a process's address space. This makes it difficult for an attacker to predict the memory address of the next instruction. 
    
- **When it's used**
    
    ASLR is built into the Linux kernel and has been incorporated into Windows since Vista. Apple started using ASLR for Mac OS X 10.5 Leopard, and Apple iOS and Google Android began using it in 2011. 
    

- **How it helps**
    
    ASLR helps to prevent buffer overflow attacks, which are flaws in software that occur when an application doesn't validate the size of user input data. If an attacker tries to exploit a mistaken location space area, the application will crash, stopping the attack and alerting the framework.