```rust
struct User {
 username: String,
 email: String,
 sign_in_count: u64,
 active: bool,
}

fn main(){
	let user1 = User {
	 email: String::from("someone@example.com"),
	 username: String::from("someusername123"),
	 active: true,
	 sign_in_count: 1,
	};
}
```
To get a specific value from a struct, we can use dot notation
```rust
let mut user1 = User {
	 email: String::from("someone@example.com"),
	 username: String::from("someusername123"),
	 active: true,
	 sign_in_count: 1,
};

//change value only if the struct is mutable
user1.email = String::from("anotheremail@example.com");
```
Note that the entire instance must be mutable; Rust doesn’t allow us to mark only certain fields as mutable.

A build_user function that takes an email and username and returns a User instance
```rust
fn build_user(email: String, username: String) -> User {
 User {
	 email: email,
	 username: username,
	 active: true,
	 sign_in_count: 1,
 }
}
```
## Using the Field Init Shorthand When Variables and FieldsHave the Same Name
Here, we’re creating a new instance of the User struct, which has a field named email. We want to set the email field’s value to the value in the email parameter of the build_user function. Because the email field and the email parameter have the same name, we only need to write email rather than email: email.
```rust
fn build_user(email: String, username: String) -> User { //Rtype is the struct
 User {
	 email,
	 username,
	 active: true,
	 sign_in_count: 1,
 }
}
```

#### Creating Instances from Other Instances with Struct Update Syntax
It’s often useful to create a new instance of a struct that uses most of an old instance’s values but changes some. You’ll do this using struct update syntax.
```rust
let user2 = User {
	 email: String::from("another@example.com"),
	 username: String::from("anotherusername567"),
	 active: user1.active, //getting active from other struct instance
	 sign_in_count: user1.sign_in_count, //same here
};
```
Using struct update syntax, we can achieve the same effect with less code, as shown in Listing 5-7. The syntax .. specifies that the remaining fields not explicitly set should have the same value as the fields in the given instance.

```rust
let user2 = User {
	 email: String::from("another@example.com"),
	 username: String::from("anotherusername567"),
	 ..user1 //does same as above
};
```

### Using Tuple Structs Without Named Fields to Create Different Types
You can also define structs that look similar to tuples, called tuple structs. Tuple structs have the added meaning the struct name provides but don’t have names associated with their fields; rather, they just have the types of the fields. Tuple structs are useful when you want to give the whole tuple a name and make the tuple be a different type than other tuples, and naming each field as in a regular struct would be verbose or redundant.

```rust
struct Color(i32, i32, i32);
struct Point(i32, i32, i32);
let black = Color(0, 0, 0);
let origin = Point(0, 0, 0);
```
Note that the black and origin values are different types, because they’re instances of different tuple structs. Each struct you define is its own type, even though the fields within the struct have the same types. For example, a function that takes a parameter of type Color cannot take a Point as an argument, even though both types are made up of three i32 values. Otherwise, tuple struct instances behave like tuples: you can destructure them into their individual pieces, you can use a . followed by the index to access an individual value, and so on.

## An Example Program Using Structs
```rust
fn main() {
	 let width1 = 30;
	 let height1 = 50;
	 println!("The area of the rectangle is {} square pixels.",area(width1, height1)
	 );
}
fn area(width: u32, height: u32) -> u32 {
	 width * height
}
```
Even though Listing 5-8 works and figures out the area of the rectangle by calling the area function with each dimension, we can do better. The width and the height are related to each other because together they describe one rectangle. The issue with this code is evident in the signature of area:
```rust
fn area(width: u32, height: u32) -> u32 {
```
## Refactoring with Tuples
```rust
fn main() {
	 let rect1 = (30, 50);
	 println!(
	 "The area of the rectangle is {} square pixels.",area(rect1));
}
fn area(dimensions: (u32, u32)) -> u32 {
   dimensions.0 * dimensions.1
}
```
In one way, this program is better. Tuples let us add a bit of structure, and we’re now passing just one argument . But in another way, this version is less clear: tuples don’t name their elements, so our calculation has become more confusing because we have to index into the parts of the tuple

## Refactoring with Structs: Adding More Meaning
```rust
struct Rectangle {
	 width: u32,
	 height: u32,
}
fn main() {
	let rect1 = Rectangle {
	  width: 30,
	  height: 50 
	};
	 println!(
	 "The area of the rectangle is {} square pixels.",
	 area(&rect1)
	 );
}
 fn area(rectangle: &Rectangle) -> u32 {
	    rectangle.width * rectangle.height
}
```

## Adding Useful Functionality with Derived Traits
It’d be nice to be able to print an instance of Rectangle while we’re debugging our program and see the values for all its fields. Listing 5-11 tries
using the println! macro as we have used in previous chapters. This won’t
work, however.
```rust
struct Rectangle {
 width: u32,
 height: u32,
}
fn main() {
 let rect1 = Rectangle { width: 30, height: 50 };
 println!("rect1 is {}", rect1); //error
 //error[E0277]: the trait bound `Rectangle: std::fmt::Display` is not satisfied
}

```
The println! macro can do many kinds of formatting, and by default, the curly brackets tell println! to use formatting known as Display: output intended for direct end user consumption. The primitive types we’ve seen so far implement Display by default, because there’s only one way you’d want to show a 1 or any other primitive type to a user. But with structs, the way println! should format the output is less clear because there are more display possibilities: Do you want commas or not? Do you want to print the curly brackets? Should all the fields be shown? Due to this ambiguity, Rust doesn’t try to guess what we want, and structs don’t have a provided implementation of Display

If we continue reading the errors, we’ll find this helpful note:
`Rectangle cannot be formatted with the default formatter; try using
`:?` `instead if you are using a format string`

Let’s try it! The println! macro call will now look like println!("rect1 is {:?}", rect1);. Putting the specifier :? inside the curly brackets tells println! we want to use an output format called Debug. The Debug trait enables us to print our struct in a way that is useful for developers so we can see its value while we’re debugging our code. Run the code with this change. Drat! We still get an error:

#note
Run the code with this change. Drat! We still get an error: error[E0277]: the trait bound `Rectangle: std::fmt::Debug` is not satisfied But again, the compiler gives us a helpful note: `Rectangle` cannot be formatted using `:?`; if it is defined in your crate, add `#[derive(Debug)]` or manually implement it Rust does include functionality to print debugging information, but we have to explicitly opt in to make that functionality available for our struct. To do that, we add the annotation #[derive(Debug)] just before the struct definition, as shown in Listing 5-12.

```output
rect1 is Rectangle { width: 30, height: 50 }
```
Nice! It’s not the prettiest output, but it shows the values of all the fields for this instance, which would definitely help during debugging. When we have larger structs, it’s useful to have output that’s a bit easier to read; in those cases, we can use {:#?} instead of {:?} in the println! string. When we use the {:#?} style in the example, the output will look like this:

# Methods in Structs
```rust
struct Rectrangel{
	withth:u32,
	height:u32
}
impl Rectrangle {
	fn area(&self)->u32{
	self.width * self.height
 }
}

fn main(){
	let rect:Rectrangle = Rectrangle {
		witdh:30,
		height:50
	};
	rect.area() //returns area of the trangle
}
```

in languages like  C++ we have diff syntax on calling method on a object directly 
1. calling a method on directly 
2. calling a method on pointer to that object

# But 
Rust doesn’t have an equivalent to the -> operator; instead, Rust has a feature called automatic referencing and dereferencing. Calling methods is one of the few places in Rust that has this behavior

Here’s how it works: when you call a method with object.something(),
Rust automatically adds in &, &mut, or * so object matches the signature of the
method. In other words, the following are the same:
`p1.distance(&p2);`
`(&p1).distance(&p2);`

The first one looks much cleaner. This automatic referencing behavior works
because methods have a clear receiver—the type of self. Given the receiver
and name of a method, Rust can figure out definitively whether the method is
reading (&self), mutating (&mut self), or consuming (self). The fact that Rust
makes borrowing implicit for method receivers is a big part of making ownership
ergonomic in practice.

```rust
struct Rectrangel{
	withth:u32,
	height:u32
}
impl Rectrangle {
	fn area(&self)->u32{
		self.width * self.height;
	 }
	fn can_hold(&self, other:&Rectrangle)->bool{
		self.width > other.width && self.height > other.height;
	}

}

fn main(){
	let rect:Rectrangle = Rectrangle {
		witdh:30,
		height:50
	};
	rect.area() //returns area of the trangle
}
```

# Associated Functions
#justRememberThis
 They are similar to static methods in languages like C++ or Java.
### Key Points:
1. Associated functions are typically used for constructors or utility functions.
2. You call them directly on the type (e.g., TypeName::function()), not on an instance of the type.
3. Unlike methods, they don't operate on an instance (self) of the type.

Another useful feature of impl blocks is that we’re allowed to define functions within impl blocks that don’t take self as a parameter. These are called associated functions because they’re associated with the struct. They’re still functions, not methods, because they don’t have an instance of the struct to work with. You’ve already used the String::from associated function.
Associated functions are often used for constructors that will return a new instance of the struct
```rust
impl Rectangle {
	 fn square(size: u32) -> Rectangle {
		 Rectangle { width: size, height: size }
     }
}

//calling it
let sq = Rectangle::square(3);
```
To call this associated function, we use the :: syntax with the struct
name; let sq = Rectangle::square(3); is an example. This function is namespaced by the struct: the :: syntax is used for both associated functions and
namespaces created by modules. We’ll discuss modules in Chapter 7.

# Multiple impl Blocks
Each struct is allowed to have multiple impl blocks. For example, Listing 5-15
is equivalent to the code shown in Listing 5-16, which has each method in its
own impl block.

```rust
impl Rectangle {
 fn area(&self) -> u32 {
 self.width * self.height
 }
}
impl Rectangle {
 fn can_hold(&self, other: &Rectangle) -> bool {
 self.width > other.width && self.height > other.height
 }
}
```