- The mod keyword declares a new module. Code within the module
appears either immediately following this declaration within curly
brackets or in another file.
- By default, functions, types, constants, and modules are private. The
pub keyword makes an item public and therefore visible outside its
namespace.
- The use keyword brings modules, or the definitions inside modules,
into scope so it’s easier to refer to them.

## Creating a library crate instead of binary crate
`cargo new communicator --lib`
Notice instead of main.rs we got lib.rs
with the following code : 
```rust
#[cfg(test)]
mod tests {
 #[test]
 fn it_works() {
 assert_eq!(2 + 2, 4);
 }
}
```
Because we don’t have a src/main.rs file, there’s nothing for Cargo to execute with the cargo run command. ==Therefore, we’ll use the cargo build command to compile our library crate’s code.==

## Module Definitions
For our communicator networking library, we’ll first define a module named
network that contains the definition of a function called connect. Every module
definition in Rust starts with the mod keyword. Add this code to the beginning
of the src/lib.rs file, above the test code:
```rust 
mod network {
 fn connect() {
 }
}

```
After the mod keyword, we put the name of the module, network, and
then a block of code in curly brackets. ==Everything inside this block is inside==
==the namespace network.== In this case, we have a single function, connect. If
we wanted to call this function from code outside the network module, we
would need to specify the module and use the :: namespace syntax like so:
network::connect().

```rust
//multiple module in single file

mod network {
 fn connect() {
 }
}
mod client {
 fn connect() {
 }
}
```
MODULE inside Module
```rust
mod network {
	 fn connect() {
}
mod client {
	 fn connect() {
	 }
  }
}
```
The functions ==network::connect== and ==network::client::connect:==
are both named connect, but they don’t conflict with each other because
they’re in different namespaces
## Moving Modules to Other Files
```rust
//client.rs
mod client {
 fn connect() {
 }
}
```

```rust
//server.rs
mod server {
	fn connect() {
		 }
 }
```

```rust
//src/network.rs
mod network {
	 fn connect() {
 }
 mod server;
}
```

```rust
//src/lib.rs
mod client;
mod network;
 
 
```

there will be an error 
because we are creating a module and importing it into the other module . to do so we need a separate directory 
─ src
 ├── client.rs
 ├── lib.rs
 └── network
	  ├── mod.rs
      └── server.rs


## Rules of module filesystem

  Let’s summarize the rules of modules with regard to files:
•	 If a module named foo has no submodules, you should put the declarations for foo in a file named foo.rs.
•	 If a module named foo does have submodules, you should put the declarations for foo in a file named foo/mod.rs.

## Controlling Visibility with pub
To understand why this program invokes these warnings, let’s try using
the communicator library from another project, calling it externally. To do that,
we’ll create a binary crate in the same directory as our library crate by making a src/main.rs file containing this code:

```rust
extern crate communicator;
fn main() {
 communicator::client::connect();
}

error[E0603]: module `client` is private
 --> src/main.rs:4:5
 |
4 | communicator::client::connect();
 | ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
```

# fix

```rust
pub mod client;
pub mod network;
```

```rust
pub fn connect() {
}
```
## Privacy Rules
Overall, these are the rules for item visibility:
•	 If an item is public, it can be accessed through any of its parent modules.
•	 If an item is private, it can be accessed only by its immediate parent
module and any of the parent’s child modules.
```rust
mod outermost {
	 pub fn middle_function() {}
	 fn middle_secret_function() {}
	 mod inside {
		 pub fn inner_function() {}
		 fn secret_function() {}
	 }
}
fn try_me() {
 outermost::middle_function();
 outermost::middle_secret_function();
 outermost::inside::inner_function();
 outermost::inside::secret_function();
}
```